Add ERC: ERC-20 Update Allowance By Spender (#23)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7410.md

---
eip: 7410
title: ERC-20 Update Allowance By Spender
description: Extension to enable revoking and decreasing allowance approval by spender for ERC-20
author: Mohammad Zakeri Rad (@zakrad), Adam Boudjemaa (@aboudjem), Mohamad Hammoud (@mohamadhammoud)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7410-decrease-allowance-by-spender/15222
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-07-26
requires: 20, 165
---

## Abstract

> This extension adds a decrease allowance mechanism to [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) allowances, in which a spender can revoke or decrease a given allowance by a specific address. This ERC extends [ERC-20](./eip-20.md).

Reviewer: Better to exactly describe the mechanism you're adding in the abstract:

```suggestion
This extension adds a `decreaseAllowanceBySpender` function to decrease [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) allowances, in which a spender can revoke or decrease a given allowance by a specific address. This ERC extends [ERC-20](./eip-20.md).
```

Contracts using this ERC MUST implement the `IERC7410` interface.

### Interface implementation

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

/**
 * @title IERC-7410 Update Allowance By Spender Extension
 * Note: the ERC-165 identifier for this interface is 0x12860fba
 */
interface IERC7410 is IERC20 {

    /**
     * @notice Decreases any allowance by `owner` address for caller.
     * Emits an {IERC20-Approval} event.
     *
     * Requirements:
     * - when `subtractedValue` is equal or higher than current allowance of spender the new allowance is set to 0.
     * Nullification also MUST be reflected for current allowance being type(uint256).max.
     */
    function decreaseAllowanceBySpender(address owner, uint256 subtractedValue) external;

}
```

The `decreaseAllowanceBySpender(address owner, uint256 subtractedValue)` function MUST be either `public` or `external`.

The `Approval` event MUST be emitted when `decreaseAllowanceBySpender` is called.

The `supportsInterface` method MUST return `true` when called with `0x12860fba`.

## Rationale

By having a way to approve and revoke in a manner similar to [ERC-20](./eip-20.md), the trust level can be more directly managed by spender:

> - Using the `decreaseAllowanceBySpender` function, spenders can revoke or decrease their allowance by `subtractedValue`.

Reviewer: These two lines aren't really rationale. They don't explain technical choices made within the EIP itself.

Author: Thank you for the review, resolved by describing technical choices made within ERC
